RFC 006 - Replicate changes between staging and prod (#1681)
iasql/iasql-engine: rfcs/006 - Replicate changes between staging and prod RFC.md

### 2. Sync a database to a different cloud account than the one it is connected to

An IaSQL function that takes the alias of another dataabse owned by the same user as input. `iasql_import(‘staging’)` will return the same data structure as `iasql_commit` or `iasql_preview`. This function can reuse parts of the mappers and existing IaSQL functions to run diffs across two different databases or accounts. There could have an optional `dry_run` parameter or another function to preview the changes: `iasql_preview_import(‘staging’)` or `iasql_import(‘staging’, true)`.

The steps to replicate recent database/account A changes in database/account B when calling `iasql_import('A')` from within database B:
1) Regular sync database A to cloud account A
2) Regular sync database B to cloud account B
3) New import sync functionality where database B is pointed to cloud account A directly

> The new import sync functionality described in #3 would expand the mapper definitions to include a new `import` function and laxer equality function for each module.

Reviewer: It would be good to mention in here that the AWS-provided cloud IDs would make identifying "equivalent" records from one cloud to fill in for the other very difficult, if not impossible.

Also mentioning that differences in the way deployment is done in production vs staging to deal with real-world concerns like not overspending on a staging environment but being able to handle the workload of production would cause further differences that would be impossible to identify as "valid" differences between the two.

### 3. Interactive `git rebase` style sync

> Similar to option 2, but when conflict arises prompt the user to handle the merge conflicts between the two cloud accounts or databases interactively. The PostgreSQL REPL doesn't allow interactive input so that would have to happen using a two-phase process via an interim table or the dashboard. This option requires a lot of resources to implement out of the gate. The current proposal and if this workflow proves to be primordial to users we can eventually prioritize it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to option 2, but when conflict arises prompt the user to handle the merge conflicts between the two cloud accounts or databases interactively. The PostgreSQL REPL doesn't allow interactive input so that would have to happen using a two-phase process via an interim table or the dashboard. This option requires a lot of resources to implement out of the gate. The current proposal and this workflow are compatible, so if this proves to be important to users we can eventually prioritize it.
```

### 4. Use existing PostgreSQL data synchronization tools

> There is a breadth of tools to keep two databases in sync. However, they are not enough to satisfy our requirements for this problem because the data should not be copied over exactly as-is. We have cloud-generated IDs as columns in a lot of tables that are specific to a resource in each account like an EC2 instance id.

Reviewer 2: I some kind of "cross-database equality check for entities" would help us. I don't know of any yet, but we can think about it.

Author: I'm not sure I understand what you mean here or how it would help use sidestep what is highlighted

Reviewer 2: I mean we need a way to check if two entities are the same thing, but in two different environments (in staging vs in production).
Currently we use `@cloudId` which won't work across accounts, but maybe there's a way? Like tracking the resources and self-assigning them IDs. Anyway this needs more thought.

Reviewer: I'm pretty sure it's impossible to do that for some of the reasons laid out in here. Not only are some of them ambiguous (how to distinguish multiple EC2 instances with no `Name` tag) but some may be conceptually identical for the user and how they're using it, but actually different between environments for cost reasons.
